Data from

David L. MacAdam,
Uniform color scales,
Journal of the Optical Society of America, Vol. 64, Issue 12, pp. 1691-1702,
(1974),
<https://doi.org/10.1364/JOSA.64.001691>.

#### Abstract

Judgments of relative magnitudes of color differences exhibited by 128 selected
nearest-neighbor pairs of 59 colored tiles were recorded by 49 to 76 observers,
all of whom had normal color vision. Scale values that represent the perceived
magnitudes of the color differences were obtained by statistical analysis of
their reports. From colorimetric specifications of the tiles, formulas have
been devised that define a three-dimensional euclidean space in which the
distances between the points that represent the colors correlate reasonably
well with the reported magnitudes of the perceived color differences. Lattice
points of a regular rhombohedral crystal in that space have been used to
specify about 500 colors that are being made for distribution by the Optical
Society. Because of the manner of selection of those colors, each except the
most saturated of the chosen colors will exhibit equal magnitudes of color
difference from 12 others. About 2500 equally noticeable color differences can
be exhibited by suitable arrangements of those colors. Each except the most
saturated of the colors can be arranged in six different series. Each of those
series exhibits from three to ten color differences, all of equal magnitude.
Such a series of colors, which exhibits equal color differences is known as a
uniform color scale. Provision of a set of colors with which the maximum
possible number and variety of uniform color scales can be constructed was the
goal of the Optical Society Committee on Uniform Color Scales, of which this is
a report.

- `table1.*`

  ```
  TABLE I. Observed and computed color differences.

  Pair, Tiles, Observed Scale Difference, Computed Color difference, Error,
  Ratio of computed lightness difference to total difference
  ```

- `table2.*`

  ```
  TABLE II. Colorimetric specifications of tiles (diffuse) D65 CIE 1964
  supplementary 100 observer.

  Tile x y Y g j L
  ```

- `table3.*`

  ```
  TABLE III. Observed and computed lightness differences.

  Pair; Computed lightness difference;
  Number of observers who picked the lightness in accord with computation
  ```

- `table4.*`

  ```
  TABLE IV. Numbers, N, of lattice points at various distances S=2n from any
  reference point in the lattice, for indicated combinations of \Delta L,
  \Delta g, \Delta j.  Lattice points specified by interchanging the indicated
  increments of \Delta g and \Delta j are included in the numbers given. Rows
  in which the column headed n is empty are continuations of immediately
  preceding rows, for the same value of n.

  n; Delta L; Delta g; Delta j; Delta N; \sum_n^n \Delta N; \sum_1^n \Delta N;
  \sqrt(2S)
  ```
