From

M. R. Luo, B. Rigg,
Chromaticity Discrimination Ellipses for Surface Colours,
Color Research and Application, Volume 11, Issue 1, Spring 1986, Pages 25-42,
<https://doi.org/10.1002/col.5080110107>.

### Abstract

Available colour-discrimination data for surface colours have been analysed to
produce chromaticity-discrimination ellipses for individual colour centres.
Applying simulated errors showed that when the distribution of samples around a
standard was unsatisfactory, the ellipses obtained were unreliable. A total of
132 reliable ellipses were obtained. The values of 6 and a/b varied
systematically over the chro-maticity diagram, the patterns from acceptability,
perceptibility, textile, and non-textile ellipses being very similar. New
experimental data involving over 400 pairs of samples corresponding to 70 of
the colour centres and assessed against a grey scale were used to adjust the
relative sizes of the ellipses. Overall set factors were used to bring data
from different sources onto a common scale. However, even after allowing for
different lightness levels, the sizes of the ellipses still appeared to be
irregular. Using the new results to adjust the sizes of the individual ellipses
from any one group of data, e.g., BFD, DF, or MMB, gave ellipses forming a much
more regular pattern. In contrast to the MacAdam ellipses, the smallest
ellipses occurred in the blue-grey region. Our results imply that the relative
sizes of the ellipses from the same group of data are in error by a factor of
two or more. Comparing colour differences for different colours appears to be
much more difficult than has been previously realised. The problem appears to
have affected all the major groups of published data.

Data from Table 3.

Set; x; y; Y; a \* 10^4; a/b; theta [deg]; overline{R}; SF
