Data from

Klaus Witt
Geometric relations between scales of small colour differences
Color Research and Application, Volume 24, Issue 2, April 1999, Pages 78-92,
https://doi.org/10.1002/(SICI)1520-6378(199904)24:2<78::AID-COL3>3.0.CO;2-M.

### Abstract

Varying magnitude of colour differences from threshold up to moderate size in painted
sample pairs at five CIE colour centers was estimated by grey scale assessment. Painted
samples were produced for constant step width along the main axes of previously
determined threshold (x,y,Y)-ellipsoids with lightness variation at constant
(x,y)-chromaticity starting with threshold length and enlarging it five times for
moderate magnitude of colour difference. Pairs were formed for linear extensions along
axes and for diagonal combinations at equal step width between axes. The model under
test assumes additive linear scale extension in constant proportions of the threshold
(x,y,Y)-ellipsoid for increasing magnitude of perceived colour difference and correlates
perceptual main colour characters with main ellipsoid axes. Both assumptions were
falsified to some degree: in general, magnitude of colour difference varies differently,
though close to linear, and slightly subadditive for the three axes and for the
different colour centers; the short (x,y)-ellipse axis in some cases is not correlated
with a perceptual hue vector component, and the main lightness direction sometimes is
tilted in relation to the (x,y)-plane. Three colour-difference formulae do not provide
better global predictions than the local (x,y,Y)-ellipsoid formulae. The results may be
used for more detailed modeling of colour-difference formulae and for tolerance settings
at different ranges of colour difference.

### ATTENTION

The original data for Yellow (first column) is [.3810, .4202, 32.93]. The Y value is
completely out of place though and appear to be an error. Set it to NaN.
